

Crespo2012 - Kinetics of Amyloid Fibril Formation

This model is described in the article:

[A generic crystallization-like model that describes the kinetics of amyloid
fibril formation.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22767606)

Crespo R, Rocha FA, Damas AM, Martins PM.

J. Biol. Chem. 2012 Aug; 287(36): 30585-30594

Abstract:

Associated with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer, Parkinson, or
prion diseases, the conversion of soluble proteins into amyloid fibrils
remains poorly understood. Extensive "in vitro" measurements of protein
aggregation kinetics have been reported, but no consensus mechanism has
emerged until now. This contribution aims at overcoming this gap by proposing
a theoretically consistent crystallization-like model (CLM) that is able to
describe the classic types of amyloid fibrillization kinetics identified in
our literature survey. Amyloid conversion represented as a function of time is
shown to follow different curve shapes, ranging from sigmoidal to hyperbolic,
according to the relative importance of the nucleation and growth steps. Using
the CLM, apparently unrelated data are deconvoluted into generic mechanistic
information integrating the combined influence of seeding, nucleation, growth,
and fibril breakage events. It is notable that this complex assembly of
interdependent events is ultimately reduced to a mathematically simple model,
whose two parameters can be determined by little more than visual inspection.
The good fitting results obtained for all cases confirm the CLM as a good
approximation to the generalized underlying principle governing amyloid
fibrillization. A perspective is presented on possible applications of the CLM
during the development of new targets for amyloid disease therapeutics.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000531](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000531).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

